# An anti-capitialist cryptoeconomics

This project is about theorizing an anti-capitalist cryptoeconomic theory as an alternative approach to the cryptoeconomics shaping the blockchain ecosystem today.

## The problem

Cryptoeconomics is the use of game theory, cryptographic proofs and computer science to guarantee future economic outcomes. Most of the top protocols in the blockchain ecosystem, such as Bitcoin, Ethereum and others, apply cryptoeconomics, for example in describing the fault tolerance of a protocol through the ['Byzantine Generals Problem'](https://lamport.azurewebsites.net/pubs/byz.pdf), which is a [coordination game](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordination_game) problem, but also when incentivising the systems, such as proof-of-work mining rewards, proof-of-stake validator rewards, and making it very costly to perform attacks against the networks, eg 51% attacks. 

The problem with cryptoeconomics today is that it has been used to theorize protocol development and user experiences in ways that assume that people are profit maximizing individualists and that, by seeking their own self-interest, this behavior is rational. For example, an individual stakes 35 ETH to become a validator, and there are validator rewards -- which is why anyone would become a validator -- and they are expected to behave accordingly (eg not maliciously) otherwise they face penalties and their ETH is slashed. In this cryptoeconomics, self-interest is the invisible hand that makes everyone behave according to the rules of the game, but there are adverse effects. For example, when trading crypto pairs it is natural to buy cheap and sell dear for as low as personal risk as possible. This helps enable perverse market incentives where opportunities for [arbitrage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arbitrage) and [frontrunning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Front_running) occur at the expense of the rest of network and community wellbeing. For example, the Flashbots team revealed that 'maximum extracted value'(MEV) accounted for [~900 million USD in 2021](https://explore.flashbots.net/) through exploiting MEV frontrunning, arbitrage and other strategies. Additionally, 'token economics', which is form of cryptoeconomics which abstracts away protocol considerations, is driven by the desire to tokenize everything. Distributed ledger technologies and decentralized consensys protocols are too important for people and planet to leave to the interests of self-interest and profit-maximization. A intervention is needed to promote an laternative so that protocls and applicaitons can be built which promote better values.

That the assumptions underlying today's cryptoeconomics have biased the evolution of distributed ledger technology and decentralized consensus protocols towards self-interest and profit-maximization is no surprise. This is consistent in a society based on capitalism and markets where buyers and sellers fleece one another to gain wealth and power while the vast majority struggle to survive. The profit maximizing individualist, today's proponent of cryptoeconomics, might roll their eyes before countering that the individual's struggle for personal wealth has reduced poverty overall and so profit maximization has done more good than harm. This is a basic liberal view consistent with social contract theory. For example, John Rawls' theory of justice envisioned a just outcome being one that raised the position of those least well off in society to one that is better. He did so through a ['veil of ignorance' thought experiment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Original_position) where an individual is asked to imagine the principles they would use to guide a basic structure of society, without knowing ahead of time what position they would hold in that society. The choice is made behind a 'veil of ignorance' which prevents them from knowing their own race, class, gender, ability or decision-making status and also without knowing anyone else's.The idea was for an individual to imagine guiding principles for a just society. But this is not enough. That's because in Rawls' formulation you can both improve the position of those least well off in society and -- at the same time -- increase the gap between the rich and poor, the powerful and the powerless, etc. and that is why self-seeking profit maximization is a poor argument for making societies more equal. 

The goal of a new anti-capitalist cryptoeconomics is to increase the wellbeing of those less well off and minimize the gap between rich and poor, the powerful and powerless, incentivised overall to drive society towards solidarity, classlessness, self-managing, directly-democratic and diverse outcomes. The anti-capitalist cryptoeconomics spelled out here does not believe you can use game theory to ['program people'(link qoute) or their behavior. That is because this theory abandons the outdated assumption that people are ['homo economicus'](https://blog.p2pfoundation.net/samuel-bowles-death-homo-economicus/2017/03/21), the profit-maximizing individualist that haunts the crypto scene today. Instead, this effort aims to apply game theory, cryptography and computer science to promote those values, however gently and non-deterministically, with an understanding that we cannot force people to behave the way we want to.

## Contribute

This project is an open source, in progress, collective effort. To contribute:
- clone this repo
- make your edits and suggesitons locally
- push your changes for review

 
